on being - tippett+popova

intellectual dance
literature is the original hypertext
culture needs stewardship not disruption
education isnt gotten its claimed
the meaningful is the opposite of trivial
there is no shortcut to the conquest of meaning
it takes time
i use thoreaus diaries as a spiritual text

parker palmer - more efficient, small things?

vannover bush 1945 as you may think - internet:memix?
there will be a new profession of trailblazer who will make a career of finding useful trails throught **the common record**

what I do is an attempt to make sense of humanity's common record -MP

tippett:
What youve learned in the first 7 years:
"build pockets of stillnesss into yout life"

presence is far more rewarding in art than productivity
productive to mask the absence of feeling purposeful

george eliot
people may have in mind a vocation not quite clear to themselves and may seem idle and weak because were growing ans so we should be patient with each other

productivity can be an expression of impatience

MY TAKE: if you dont love what you do how do expect others to love what you make

the reverse chronology of news feeds and google and twitter and facebook is conditioning us to believe rather falsely the most recent is the most important and the older matters less or EXISTS less

99 percent of human thought is off the record

eb strom: the goal of the writer is to lift the reader up not push them down (jornalism does not lift)

the internet is a self perfecting organism

hope is a conditioned response+dickinson quote on hope

any territory to which we bring the pioneering spirit is bound to have the good and the evil

people will rebel against what doesnt work spiritually, intellectually, and creatively (ads, anonymous hate, negative-bias news)

skip local news and subscribe to the NYT


2014 best OF (most read and shared and most pleasureable for Maria's pleasure)
an antidote to the age of anxiety
alan watts on happiness the...
fixed vs growth
how to criticize wtih kindness
...
how to be alone
the hidden brain
how ocean currents...
ben franklin effect
the shortness of life...

tippett: are those themes different now?
maria: ABSOLUTELY, they're radically differnet. I'm radically different. i was a spiritual embryo. (you were 21) and also i wasn't reading so much, at least literature.

the greatest record of human thought is in the written word: how to live well, what it means to live a meaningful life, these questions are ancient and have ben visited over and over. i'm only dipping my toes...because BP is such a subjective, private, one-woman labor of love it is SO ALIGNED with the events of my own life and the things that I struggle with, the answeres that I'm strugglin with. 

my ATHEISM, not seeing the nuance of spirituality, was a result...we never see the world exactly as it is we see it as we HOPE it will be or FEAR it might be and spend our lives going through modified stages of grief about that realization (and we argue it) but EVENTUALLY we come to see it not as despairing but as vitalizing.

we never see the world exactly as it is because we ARE how the world is

WILLIAM JAMES: what I agree to attend to & only those things which I notice shape my mind

I'm completely out of touch with current events.

MY TAKE: Inner divisiveness is the true evil, not outer

SETH GODIN
"giving the people what they want...THERES always a shortcut available..imagine what would happen if you could teach them"


ARTICLES:
top:

“The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long”
“How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love”
“9 Learnings from 9 Years of Brain Pickings”
Anything about Alan Watts: “Alan Watts has changed my life. I’ve written about him quite a bit.”


Brain Pickings was born on October 23, 2006, as a short email to seven friends. Seven years and several incomprehensible million readers into its existence, I began what has since become an annual tradition — a distillation of the most important things I have learned about living while reading and writing my way through life... It is the only overtly personal writing I do on Brain Pickings. 

Each year, it has swelled into an existential challenge to prune the vastness, the lushness, the interleaved complexity of experience into a single blade of simple but not simplistic insight into the nature of life, glimpsed from the solitary pinhole of this one life.

14th

The challenge has never been more colossal than this past year — the most trying I have lived through, by orders of magnitude. Depression has lowered its leaden cloudscape over me again and again since I was fifteen, but no other year has lidded life more ominously, as the staggering collective grief we are living through together densified the black fog of private loss.

13th

On October 23, 2006, Brain Pickings was born as a plain-text email to seven friends. It was then, and continues to be, a labor of love and ledger of curiosity, although the mind and heart from which it sprang have changed — have grown, I hope — tremendously. 